All eMUDs_Commands that may to be called from the command line
start with a slash. This means that a command line starting with
a / wont be send to the MUD server, but eMUDs will place braces
around and LISP execute them.

eMUDs_Commands dont need to be interactive, if you only want to
start them from command line. But they need to be interactive,
if you want to start them with &lt;m-x&gt; or bind them on a
function key. Function key commands should better start with
the emuds- prefix, to avoid polluting the namespace used for
command line commands.

<ul>
<li> /addworld (name host port)
 Add a world to the list of known worlds.
<li> /emuds ()
 Ask for one of the defined worlds and start the game.
<li> /load (mod)
 Load some lisp code, just the same as load but interactive and
 it can give from the eMUDs command line.
<li> /reload ()
 Reload all lisp files related to the world.
<li> /queue (&amp;rest lines)
 Queue lines to be send on prompt.
<li> /send (line)
 Send a line immediate to the server, ignoring presents or absense of
 prompt and queue.
<li> /mapkey (&amp;optional key func)
 Map a key to a function. The function needs to be interactive,
and should not start with a slash, but with the emuds- prefix.
Furthermore key functions do not receive any arguments.
 Using /mapkey without any arguments will delete all keyboard
definitions.
<li> /trigger (&amp;optional expr func &amp;rest args)
 Defines a long living trigger by a regular expression a function
and their arguments. The function does neither need to be interactive,
nor does it need to be a command line function.
 Using /trigger without any arguments will delete all trigger
definitions.
<li> /once (&optional expr func &amp;rest args)
 Defines a trigger in the temporary trigger chain. Usage is the
same as with /trigger, but calling /once without any argument
is the main feature of this 2nd chain of triggers.
<li> /quote ()
 Queues each line of the current text buffer to the mud session.
<li> /debug ()
 Turns on debugging of the next bug.
<li> /stop ()
 Stop all triggers and queue.
<li> /quit ()
 Disconnect, save and quit the game.
</ul>

I deceided to keep the core set minimal, see Files_in_Detail for
extensions of eMUDs.
