eMUDs is a MUD_Client written in EMACS.

eMUDs offers a programmable interactive telnet client, implementing a split
screen for out of game, in game and own actions as EMACS buffers.

Parsing the game stream is done by triggers, a regular expression bound to
a LISP function, arranged in chains. Even color and IAC telnet options are
triggers.  LISP as a real programming language designed for 'artificial
intelligence' offers to write 'intelligent' triggers and the EMACS editor
already had the feature of binding a hotkey to a LISP function.

eMUDs is a small client. Far less than 1000 lines of LISP had been enough
to implement the basics. More than 10.000 lines of LISP using eMUDs exist
showing how to optimize your triggers, hotkeys and channels for your MUD.

eMUDs is fast. Remember Moore's law before calling EMACS slow. EMACS is
15 years old, so its 1024 times faster than anything that is slow, e.g.
color processing and displaying the stream is much faster than other
platform independent clients with KDE or Gnome could be. I have a P120
laptop, and I can speedwalk without client side lag in my home MUD.

EMACS itself is a text editor. This is becomes a benefit in writing
MUDmails or using public boards. I can edit the text, spell check it,
walk to the postal office, and send the letter with a single key.
The integration of the eMUDs into a one of the best editors, makes
eMUDs an integrated development environment for MUD coders, builders,
quest masters and other people, who need to automate their tasks.

Proceed with Downloading_eMUDs.
